hi Chris doll here with quilting weekly
calm part 2 of how to create your own
binding part 1 was how to measure the
quilt top accurately to determine how
many strips of fabric you'll need to cut
for your binding this part of the video
is on how to join all of those strips
that you recently cut the first thing I
want to point out is when you join two
pieces of fabric together we do know
that it goes wrong right sides together
and most of the time when we're quilting
or making our pieces we tend to be
making a straight seam across the edge
of our fabric in binding I prefer to
make a diagonal seam I find it a little
stronger and it's a little less
noticeable on your quilt when you do a
diagonal seen the think about the quilt
top when it's finished well it gets a
lot of folding creases and things like
that and when you're putting a lot of
stress on those seams on the outer edge
of that quilt if you do straight seams
on your binding those are probably going
to give way first so do a diagonal seam
less stress and its hides in the binding
much easier so in order to do that you
need to lay your first piece of fabric
down right side up you lay your second
piece of fabric down to create a
45-degree angle if you're laying your
fabric in the direction that I have it
right now you need to know that your
diagonal seam is going to run from left
to right so if it's facing you left to
right if I were to make my 45 degree
angle this direction you need to be sure
you remember right to left so if it's up
right to left if it's down it's going to
be left to right that's very important
I'm going to take my fabric now laid in
my position the way I have it if you
have a nice small little quilting ruler
like this really any size really will
work but what you want to find is your
diagonal line that runs from corner to
corner when I place that down along this
edge of my fabric and I will draw my
line from corner to corner my fabrics
facing me so it's left to right draw
that line down put in a pin keep it from
shifting take it to your sewing machine
and then stitch on that diagonal line
that you've just drawn I've already done
that on this particular set of fabric so
I've stitched along that's pencil line I
then took my quilting ruler and trimmed
off my triangles to a quarter inch
eliminating some of that bulk some
people actually save those cute little
triangles that came off the corner here
sew them together and you have a nice
half square triangle for a very tiny
quilt I personally throw them away I'm
not that insane but there are some would
you like to make miniature quotes those
would be perfect for them so if you have
a friend who does miniature quilts save
your triangles and Sam to her she'll be
thrilled the other tip I want to point
out is when you press this seam
typically with quilting we press our
scenes to one side or the other on the
binding to distribute the bulk a little
more evenly press your seams open thank
you for watching the next part of our
segment will be how I press the binding
in half accurately and quickly without
burnt fingers then we're going to show
you how to attach your binding to your
quilt and how to make mitered corners
and how I overlap my ends thank you for
watching part 2 of how to create your
own binding for more helpful tips like
this visit quilting weekly com
registration is free you'll get email
notifications of when new videos like
this came out as well as other helpful
quilting tips and workshops thank you